# evcs_spatial_analysis
This is a repo to hold the code for my dissertation: Examining Spatial Equity in the Distribution of Electric Vehicle Charging Stations and Grid Capacity: A Case Study of Greater London

## ABSTRACT
Electric vehicles (EVs) have been widely proposed as a key element to the UK’s Net Zero transport decarbonisation plans. However, the UK’s current EV market share is well below the necessary levels. The literature has shown that charging infrastructure is one of the biggest barriers to EV adoption. This area is receiving increasing scrutiny, though spatial and equity factors have long been overlooked. Literature from the US and China shows that EV infrastructure development is highly correlated with socio-demographic factors whereby infrastructure is less accessible in disadvantaged neighbourhoods. This study explored whether this inequity exists in the UK, specifically London, and whether this inequity is also inherent in grid infrastructure. Regression and spatial analysis techniques showed that socio-demographic, land use and network factors have little relationship with the number of electric vehicle charging stations (EVCS) and network capacity in output areas (OAs) across Greater London. Negligible positive associations between car ownership and charge point count, negative associations between Black identifying areas and positive associations between commercial land use and network capacity support prior findings by US researchers. Overall, the study concludes that London’s EV and grid infrastructure does not suffer from spatial inequity.  
